>> Jason Pamental: Another couple little
details that I have here that you can take
a look at is playing around
with the coloring version.
So this is something that quite often
when you switch around that figure
group relationship with color.
If you don't do anything with text grade,
sometimes things can get
a little bit harder to read.
So, often times by flipping that around
you actually want to play around it
a little bit with the text grade so that,
>> Jason Pamental: There we go.
So when I add the text grading,
you can see it sort of increases
that contrast just a little bit.
And I think I've sort of forced
the grade in the inverse mode,
because without the text grade then this
all can tend to be a little bit spindly.
The text doesn't really have enough
contrast to stand apart from
the background.
But that's all stuff that's
really easy to change.
Let me take a look at what
that looks like in the CSS.
>> Jason Pamental: So, that little
JavaScript toggle, all it does is add or
remove a class of inverse
on the HTML element.
So what I've done is here,
when the inverse
class is present it just changes
the background color and the text color.
But it does a couple of things here,
it changes the text grade when I
have the inverse class present.
And what's also worth pointing out is
how this stuff is actually written out.
So I wanna actually get into more detail
here cuz this is where we start to
make good use of CSS variables outside
just the calculations for scale.
One of the things that I
had mentioned early on
is when you have the font
variation settings, and
you write them all out with static values,
you have to rewrite the whole string.
So if we go back to
a slide where I have that,
>> Jason Pamental: Here, so in this slide,
my font variations settings
would a width an italic value or
optical sizing,
if you wanna change one of those values,
you have to rewrite the whole string.
So when you wanna do things
like just change the weight.
Or like if somebody's hovering something
and you want to actually just increase
the weight of the text, or something like
that, you have to rewrite this whole
string every time and
that could be really cumbersome.
And what I realized was this is
another instance where CSS variables
can really come into play and
be really handy.
So the first thing that I do up here,
>> Jason Pamental: When I
write these things out.
So this looks a little bit crazy.
But for any element where
I'm gonna change the text
size, I create this baseline declaration.
Now this typeface, the FF Meta,
only has weight and italics.
But I just define the font family,
font, weight, and style normal, so
that way browsers don't try and
fake bold a heading.
That's something that browsers will
do is try to set the size to bold
if they think you're suppose to have it
even if we're specifying a font weight.
And then, set the base font
variation settings of weight and
italics using those CSS variables.
I don't have to do anything else.
But now, at any point where
I want to change the weight,
all I have to do is re-assign the variable
and scope it to that selector.
So that makes it really easy for me to do
things like down here for the heading.
All I'm doing is changing text weight,
the variable assignment.
So, whatever is applied to an h1,
just change that one value.
So, it makes it much simpler while
rewriting much smaller code.
And now, if I wanna take that whole
stack and change the base weight for
everything in a little chunk of code
that I put in a widget in a side bar.
I could scope sidebar widget font
weight change that one value,
it'll impact everything
that's scoped inside it.
So, it really makes it useful and
portable, especially in a design system,
for you to have all of
this stuff encapsulated.
And wherever you place that widget you
could have some CSS that redefines
just that one variable,
that one aspect that you wanna change.
And it will affect everything that's
encapsulated in that one object.
So using CSS variables this way
is really in a way letting you
theme these different elements,
and write way less code.
Because you don't have to rewrite
all of these declarations.
All you have to do is just
reassign that one thing.
So you can see when I get down
into some of these things.
All I'm doing is setting text italic
here further down in some of these
other elements, like the block quote.
Just changing text weight.
So the paragraph inside the block quote
gets a difference text weight calculation
an Italic value, citation gets
something a little different.
So again, all I'm doing, I'm never
rewriting that font variation settings.
I've done that once in the entire file,
and
just applied all the elements
that I want it to be relevant to.
And then the whole rest of the file, all
I've got to do is just redefine variables.
So it really makes it much, much simpler.